docker/README.MD, before:

# Backend
## Initialize Database from backend
Since the db is running but not ready at startup you should not run with `DB_SYNC=true`.  

Before initializing the database set the following env variables
* PGHOST
* PGPASSWORD
* PGUSER
* PGDATABASE
* PGPORT

To initialize the database:
```bash
# Reset the database
# docker exec -it -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" rederly_db dropdb "rederly"
# Initialize the database
docker exec -it -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" rederly_db createdb "rederly"
# Have the backend initialize db schema
docker exec -it -e DB_SYNC=true rederly_backend npm run cli:built noop
# Have the backend generate migration table (this will fail if you are running on initial database)
docker exec -it rederly_backend npm run sequelize:built:migrations
# Restore static data (see details in `Backup static data`)
cat resources/initialData.sql | docker exec -i -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" -e PGDATABASE="rederly" rederly_db psql
# Create a university (file may need modification)
cat resources/university.sql | docker exec -i -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" -e PGDATABASE="rederly" rederly_db psql
# Create blank curriculum (if you want that)
cat resources/curriculum.sql | docker exec -i -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" -e PGDATABASE="rederly" rederly_db psql
```

## Backup static data
I set the following environment variables and then ran the below command
* PGHOST
* PGPASSWORD
* PGUSER
* PGDATABASE
* PGPORT
```bash
pg_dump -a -x -Fp -O -t '"SequelizeMeta"' -t 'topic_type' -t 'permission' > resources/initialData.sql
```

## Migrations
To run the database migrations use the below command after `docker-compose up`
```bash
docker exec -it rederly_backend npm run sequelize:built:migrations
```

Commit message:

Added more rederly services to docker compose

docker/README.MD, after:

# Backend
## Initialize Database from backend
Since the db is running but not ready at startup you should not run with `DB_SYNC=true`.  

To initialize the database:
```bash
# First you should start up the system
docker-compose up

# Reset the database
# docker exec -it -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" rederly_db dropdb "rederly"

# Initialize the database
docker exec -it -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" rederly_db createdb "rederly"
# Have the backend initialize db schema
docker exec -it -e DB_SYNC=true rederly_backend npm run cli:built noop
# Have the backend generate migration table (this will fail if you are running on initial database)
docker exec -it rederly_backend npm run sequelize:built:migrations
# Restore static data (see details in `Backup static data`)
cat resources/initialData.sql | docker exec -i -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" -e PGDATABASE="rederly" rederly_db psql
# Create a university (file may need modification)
cat resources/university.sql | docker exec -i -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" -e PGDATABASE="rederly" rederly_db psql
# Create blank curriculum (if you want that)
cat resources/curriculum.sql | docker exec -i -e PGPASSWORD='password' -e PGUSER="postgres" -e PGDATABASE="rederly" rederly_db psql
```

## Backup static data
I set the following environment variables and then ran the below command
* PGHOST
* PGPASSWORD
* PGUSER
* PGDATABASE
* PGPORT
```bash
pg_dump -a -x -Fp -O -t '"SequelizeMeta"' -t 'topic_type' -t 'permission' > resources/initialData.sql
```

## Migrations
To run the database migrations use the below command after `docker-compose up`
```bash
docker exec -it rederly_backend npm run sequelize:built:migrations
```
